Ca-Co-O ceramics is typically p-type thermoelectric materials and possesses positive Seebeck coefficient. In this work, n-type Ca-Co-O ceramics with negative Seebeck coefficients were fabricated by sintering and annealing in a reducing atmosphere. The microstructures and thermoelectric properties of the ceramics were investigated. The results show that the carrier concentration and the carrier mobility dramatically increase after the samples were annealed in the reducing atmosphere. The electrical resistivity increases from 0.0663 mΩ·cm to 0.2974 mΩ·cm, while the negative Seebeck coefficients varies from −24.9 μV/K to −56.3 μV/K as the tem- perature increases from 323 K to 823 K, and the maximum power factor (PF, 1.536 mW/m·K2) is obtained at 623 K. The samples have n-type thermoelectric properties with large PF values and ZT value (ZT = 0.39, 823 K). The unusual results will pave a new way for studying Ca-Co-O thermoelectric ceramics.
Introduction
⁎ Corresponding author. E-mail address: gaofeng@nwpu.edu.cn (F. Gao).
at 1373 K in air. Nowadays, most of the investigated Ca-Co-O materials have high positive Seebeck coefficient as p-type semiconductors [11–13], and a lot of effective methods have been taken to enhance the properties of Ca-Co-O thermoelectric materials, such as doping, in- troducing nano-phases, and using novel sintering process [4–8]. For high temperature applications in air, thermoelectric (TE) mod- ules are fabricated and characterized with various combinations of p- type and n-type TE oxide materials as segmented TE legs, such as p-type Ca-Co-O and n-type CaMnO3, SrTiO3, etc. [12–15]. However, the dif- ference in thermal expansion coefficient between p-type Ca-Co-O and n- type materials at high temperatures results in thermal stress in the connector lug and connection problems between the legs and elec- trodes. Thus, it is imperative to develop compatible p-legs and n-legs with similar composition to mitigate these problems and simplify the preparation process [13]. Due to the contradicting physical character- istics of the p-type and n-type TE oxide materials, it is difficult to prepare a compound with both p-type and n-type thermoelectric per- formance. In our previous work, we fabricated La-Bi co-doped SrTiO3 ceramics with negative Seebeck coefficient by annealing with graphite in argon atmosphere, the electrical resistivity of the ceramics reduce 6–7 orders of magnitude, and the absolute Seebeck coefficient decreases
Metal oxide based
