Current and future trends in the aerospace industry leverage on the potential benefits provided by lightweight materials that can be tailored to realize desired mechanical characteristics when loaded. For aircraft design, the deployment of aeroelastic tailoring is hindered by the need to re-compute, for any possible modification of the structure, the dependence of the aerodynamic field on the underlying structural properties. To make progress in this direction, the work presents a rapid computational fluid dynamics based aeroelastic tool which is built around a reduced order model for the aerodynamics that is updated for any modification of the structure by using the structural dynamics reanalysis method. The aeroelastic tailoring tool is demonstrated in transonic flow for the AGARD 445.6 wing, suitably modified with composite materials. It was found that the proposed method provides accurate engineering predictions for the aeroelastic response and stability when the structure is modified from the baseline model. © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Article history: Received 18 January 2018 Received in revised form 24 October 2018 Accepted 31 October 2018 Available online 15 November 2018
In the modern high-performance aircraft design process, due to the growing concern on fuel efficiency, composite materials are increasingly deployed in aerospace structures. This is due to their performance advantages: directional stiffness and superior strength/stiffness-to-weight ratios compared with traditional metallic structures. In particular, the concept of aeroelastic tailoring using the directional stiffness properties of composite materials offers great potential for designers to improve aeroelastic performance.
Aeroelastic tailoring (Shirk et al., 1986) is a technology which can be used to control both static and dynamic aeroelastic phenomena. Aeroelastic tailoring using the anisotropic mechanical characteristics and multiple design variables, such as stacking sequence and ply angle of composite materials, is a beneficial way to enhance the aerodynamic and structural performance of aircraft. Aeroelastic tailoring has been applied to improve aeroelastic characteristics in the aircraft structural design process over the past few decades. Sherrer et al. (Sherrer et al., 1981) demonstrated that aeroelastic tailoring can
∗ Corresponding author. E-mail address: aachengang@xjtu.edu.cn (G. Chen).
be used to increase the divergence speed of a composite forward swe
