The waving motion of a submerged vegetation canopy is associated with the generation of coherent vortices on the top of the canopy, which arise as the manifestation of the mixing layer instability. The interaction between this unsteady flow above the mixing layer, as well as its influence on the vegetation canopy itself, remain relatively underexplored, with most prior studies employing significant modeling assumptions to simplify the system. In this paper a fully coupled fluid–structure modeling approach is used to investigate the interaction mechanism between the vegetation canopy and the mixing layer that arises above it. The dependence of vegetation behavior on the bending rigidity and canopy density is explored and five representative behavior states of vegetation are observed: static, flapping, dual, regular waving and irregular waving. The vortical structures observed in the mixing layer associated with each state are compared, and the influence of canopy density on the mixing layer development is investigated, with a particular focus on flow features relevant to vegetation. In addition, the lock-in effect is observed in the crossover region between the frequency of the mixing layer instability and the natural frequency of the vegetation, which indicates an attraction effect of the mixing layer on the waving frequency of the vegetation. © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Article history: Received 26 January 2021 Received in revised form 30 September 2021 Accepted 3 December 2021 Available online 22 December 2021
Vegetation canopies, such as seagrass meadow, crop field and dense forest, are abundant in nature and play an important role in a wide range of ecological services. These canopies can provide habitats for wildlife (Carpenter and Lodge, 1986), capture suspended sediment (Palmer et al., 2004), adjust temperature (Karlsson, 2000) and improve water/air quality (Moore, 2004). Most of these services are implemented through the fluid–structure interactions (FSI) between vegetation and the fluid flows they thrive in. Understanding the mechanisms of such interactions is crucial in predicting the flow stimulus on vegetation growth (Moulia and Combes, 2006) and avoiding the flow-induced damage to crops (Berry et al., 2004). In recent years, the relevant vegetated flows have been studied experimentally and numerically by researchers, from single vegetation (O’Connor and Revell, 2019; Zhang et al., 2020) to dual vegetation (Zhang et al., 2020) an
