Fig. 3.1. Data-driven method for complete thermal field reconstruction.

Fig. 3.2. Illustration of replication-masking strategy.

Fig. 3.3. Schematic of Tucker tensor decomposition.

Fig. 3.4. Schematic of the TFNO model.

Fig. 4.2. CFD computational mesh for the blunt cone.

Fig. 4.1. Geometry of the blunt cone.

Fig. 4.3. Heat flux distribution calculated by CFD for three test conditions.

Fig. 4.4. Heat flux distribution calculated by the engineering algorithm for three test conditions.

Fig. 4.7 presents the reconstructed heat flux fields for the three test states using manually specified masked measurements. This scenario was generated by masking sensors along specific meridians, thereby restricting the test inputs to a partially masked subset rather than the full sensor set. The results demonstrate distributions and metrics that are highly consistent with those obtained using the full set of measurements, further confirming the proposed method's capability to achieve high- precision reconstruction at unmeasured locations. The average recon struction accuracy across the nine scenarios is 0.986 (R2), 1.697 kW/m2

Fig. 4.5. Predicted distributions for three test cases using discrete measurements, flight-state, and low-fidelity predictions.

Fig. 4.6. Comparison of predictions using all inputs for the three test cases.

Fig. 4.7. Reconstruction results under different masking meridians and test cases (a1–a3: 0◦, b1–b3: 90◦, c1–c3: 180◦; columns correspond to Test cases 1–3).

Fig. 4.8. Heat-flux predicted using discrete measurements.

Fig. 4.9. Heat-flux predicted using discrete measurements and state.

Fig. 4.10. Heat-flux predicted using discrete measurements and CFD predictions.

Fig. 4.11. Heat-flux predicted using discrete measurements and engineering predictions.

Fig. 4.12. Heat-flux predicted using discrete measurements, flight states, and engineering predictions.

Fig. 4.13. Heat-flux predicted using discrete measurements, flight states, engineering predictions, and CFD predictions.

Fig. 4.14. Predicted distributions for Test-2 using traditional methods: (a) nearest-neighbor interpolation; (b) RBF interpolation; (c) BPNN; (d) BPNN + POD.

Fig. 5.1. Dimensions of the C/SiC plate and locations of thermocouples.

Fig. 5.2. Experimental setup (schematic).

Fig. 5.3. Photographs of (a) experimental apparatus and (b) test procedure during a heating cycle.

Fig. 5.4. Heater power and top-surface thermocouple temperature across three runs.

Fig. 5.5. Top surface temperature reconstructed at different times.

Fig. 5.6. Bottom surface temperature reconstructed at different times.

Fig. 5.7. Comparison of temperature prediction and measurement at four known sensor points.

Fig. 5.8. Comparison of temperature prediction and measurement at four masked sensor points.

Fig. 4.7 presents the reconstructed heat flux fields for the three test states using manually specified masked measurements. This scenario was generated by masking sensors along specific meridians, thereby restricting the test inputs to a partially masked subset rather than the full sensor set. The results demonstrate distributions and metrics that are highly consistent with those obtained using the full set of measurements, further confirming the proposed method's capability to achieve highprecision reconstruction at unmeasured locations. The average reconstruction accuracy across the nine scenarios is 0.986 (R2 ), 1.697 kW/m2 (RMSE), and 2.491% (relative error).

Fig. 4.14. Predicted distributions for Test-2 using traditional methods: (a) nearest-neighbor interpolation; (b) RBF interpolation; (c) BPNN; (d) $\mathrm { \bf B P N N + \mathrm { \bf ~ P O D } } .$
