Fig. 1. Trapezoidal corrugated core ITPS panel.

Fig. 2. Equivalent sandwich plate.

Fig. 3. The unit cell that build corrugated core.

Fig. 4. The deformation acting on corrugated web.

Fig. 5. The nomenclature of a half of unit cell and forces acting on the section.

Fig. 6. The forces and moments acting on the bottom face sheet of two different unit cells.

Fig. 7. Normal stresses in the mid-plane of corrugated webs subjected to pressure loading.

Fig. 8. Normal stresses in the top surface of corrugated webs subjected to pressure loading.

Fig. 9. Normal stresses in the bottom surface of corrugated webs subjected to pressure loading.

Fig. 10. Normal stresses in the mid-plane of top face sheet subjected to pressure loading.

Fig. 11. Normal stresses in the top surface of top face sheet subjected to pressure loading.

Fig. 12. Normal stresses in the bottom surface of top face sheet subjected to pressure loading.

Fig. 13. Normal stresses in the mid-plane of bottom face sheet subjected to pressure loading.

Fig. 14. Normal stresses in the top surface of bottom face sheet subjected to pressure loading.

Fig. 15. Normal stresses in the bottom surface of bottom face sheet subjected to pressure loading.

Fig. 16. Shear stresses in the mid-plane of corrugated webs, top face sheet and bottom face sheet subjected to pressure loading.

Fig. 17. Normal stresses in the mid-plane of corrugated webs subjected to temperature distribution.

Fig. 18. Normal stresses in the top surface of corrugated webs subjected to temperature distribution.

Fig. 19. Normal stresses in the bottom surface of corrugated webs subjected to temperature distribution.

Fig. 20. Normal stresses in the mid-plane of top face sheet subjected to temperature distribution.

Fig. 21. Normal stresses in the top surface of top face sheet subjected to temperature distribution.

Fig. 22. Normal stresses in the bottom surface of top face sheet subjected to temperature distribution.

Fig. 23. Normal stresses in the mid-plane of bottom face sheet subjected to temperature distribution.

Fig. 24. Normal stresses in the top surface of bottom face sheet subjected to temperature distribution.

Fig. 25. Normal stresses in the bottom surface of bottom face sheet subjected to temperature distribution.

Fig. 26. Shear stresses in the mid-plane of corrugated webs, top face sheet and bottom face sheet subjected to temperature distribution.

Fig. 27. Normal stresses in the mid-plane of corrugated webs subjected to pressure and temperature distribution.

Fig. 28. Normal stresses in the top surface of corrugated webs subjected to pressure and temperature distribution.

Fig. 29. Normal stresses in the bottom surface of corrugated webs subjected to pressure and temperature distribution.

Fig. 30. Normal stresses in the mid-plane of top face sheet subjected to pressure and temperature distribution.

Fig. 31. Normal stresses in the top surface of top face sheet subjected to pressure and temperature distribution.

Fig. 32. Normal stresses in the bottom surface of top face sheet subjected to pressure and temperature distribution.

Fig. 33. Normal stresses in the mid-plane of bottom face sheet subjected to pressure and temperature distribution.

Fig. 34. Normal stresses in the top surface of bottom face sheet subjected to pressure and temperature distribution.

Fig. 35. Normal stresses in the bottom surface of bottom face sheet subjected to pressure and temperature distribution.

Fig. 36. Shear stresses in the mid-plane of corrugated webs, top face sheet and bottom face sheet subjected to pressure and temperature distribution.
