Flow sensing is widely used to forecast flow field in fluid-structure interaction (FSI) systems. The FSI system with multiple flexible structures usually involves complex unsteady flow and large number of sensors, which makes it difficult to perform flow sensing. In this study, a flow sensing method for FSI systems via multilayer proper orthogonal decomposition (POD) is proposed to achieve real-time forecast of flow field using structural deformation. First, we establish the POD model of structural deformation. To improve model accuracy for flow field, we propose the multilayer POD model, which mainly focus on the local modeling accuracy in the region with complex flow structures. Then, we establish the multilayer model of flow field. Furthermore, the deep neural network model is employed to map the mode coefficients of the structure to all the mode coefficients of the multilayer POD. The proposed method is applied in two FSI systems, including the flow past a flexible filament clamped behind a cylinder and the flow past flexible filament set. Both constant inflow and transient flow conditions are considered. The results indicate that the proposed flow sensing method exhibits excellent spatial-temporal performance, performs accurately in flow properties forecasting, and is suitable for FSI systems with complex flow structures such as coherent vortices.
Inspired by bio-inspiration such as flexible cilia structure of arthropods and fish lateral line system (Tao and Yu, 2012; Tri antafyllou et al., 2016; Zhai et al., 2021), flow sensing technology is proposed and widely used in physical science and engineering to obtain flow speed and direction (Wolf et al., 2018; Wang et al., 2022), distribute underwater sources (Zheng et al., 2018; Liu et al., 2018), reconstruct surface pressure of aircraft (Zhao et al., 2021), analysis fluid-structure stability (Yao et al., 2022), and optimize sensors (Xu et al., 2019) (Verma et al., 2020). Generally, the essence of flow sensing method is to obtain local or global flow properties from sensor measurements of the fluid or structure. In this method, flow modeling is required to map sensor measurements to flow properties. In general, flow modeling methods can be divided into three types: white-box, black-box, and gray-box (Loiseau et al., 2018; Zhang et al., 2022). The white-box methods obtain accurate flow solutions directly by high-fidelity numerical method, but the computational time is considerably long. While the black-b
