The radioisotope is the most promising power supply technology for Mars exploration and the thermoelectric generator (TEG) is the key component that convert the heat from isotope decay into electrical energy. However, the crucial drawback of current TEGs is the low conversion efficiency due to the limited operating temperature range for thermoelectric (TE) materials. In this work, a multi-layer TEG consists of high-, mid- and low- temperature TE materials is formulated with optimal operating conditions for each layer to improve the con- version efficiency. A two-scale contact model is established to clarify the thermal-electrical interfacial effects between multiple layers. In the roughness-scale, the thermal and electrical contact resistances under interfacial Martian atmosphere clearance are numerically calculated and compared with the vacuum, Earth’s atmosphere, and silver-epoxy adhesive ones, the influence of pressure and temperature are clarified and the numerical results are experimentally validated. In the TEG-scale, the contact effect is equivalent to an additional layer and considered in the structural optimization with the objective of maximum gravimetric power density under typical isotope decay heat conditions. A typical TEG is fabricated and the numerical model is validated by the experi- mental measured voltage. The optimal TEG for Martian environment is finally obtained with conversion effi- ciency of 8.444%.
The primary limitation of the current TEG technology is the rela- tively low conversion efficiency, which is typically lower than 6 % that have been applied in Mars exploration engineering. However, for the latest RTG, i.e., RTG in Perseverance Mars rovers, the TE conversion efficiency is still lower than 6.3 %, and 7 % is the target efficiency for NASA’s next-generation RTG [13]. Therefore, the invention of TEGs with high conversion efficiency has become a pressing research priority. In the design and application of conventional TEG, the single-layer TE structure is widely used [14–20]. However, most of the TE material has a well-defined optimal operating temperature, thus such single-layer structure has a limited operating temperature range and weak perfor- mance to some extent, which gradually failed to meet the growing performance demands. The multi-layer structure TEG with appropriate temperature range for each layer tends to present better performance [21–24]. Therefore, in this paper, a multi-layer TEG is innovatively created under Martian environment and the dimension is optimized with the objective of maximum gravimetric power density to achieve higher output power and TE conversion efficiency.
